.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH rom-weaver-patch-apply 1  "rom-weaver-patch-apply "
.SH NAME
rom\-weaver\-patch\-apply \- Apply one or more ROM patch files to an input in sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrom\-weaver patch apply\fR <\fB\-\-input\fR> [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-progress\fR] [\fB\-\-select\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-progress\fR] [\fB\-\-target\fR] [\fB\-\-log\-level\fR] [\fB\-\-rom\-filter\fR] [\fB\-\-patch\-filter\fR] [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR]... [\fB\-\-no\-extract\fR] [\fB\-q\fR|\fB\-\-quiet\fR] [\fB\-\-dep\-trace\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-ignore\fR] [\fB\-\-patch\fR] [\fB\-\-output\fR] [\fB\-\-bundle\fR] [\fB\-\-with\fR] [\fB\-\-without\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-compress\fR] [\fB\-\-compress\-format\fR] [\fB\-\-compress\-codec\fR] [\fB\-\-compress\-level\fR] [\fB\-\-checksum\-cache\fR] [\fB\-\-validate\-with\-checksum\fR] [\fB\-\-patch\-header\fR] [\fB\-\-patch\-basis\fR] [\fB\-\-output\-header\fR] [\fB\-\-repair\-checksum\fR] [\fB\-\-n64\-byte\-order\fR] [\fB\-\-ignore\-checksum\-validation\fR] [\fB\-\-validate\-output\-checksum\fR] [\fB\-\-code\fR] [\fB\-\-code\-system\fR] [\fB\-\-code\-kind\fR] [\fB\-\-threads\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Apply one or more ROM patch files to an input in sequence.
.PP
Supported patch apply formats:
IPS, IPS32, SOLID, BPS, UPS, VCDIFF, xdelta, GDIFF, HDiffPatch/HPatchZ, APS (N64), APSGBA, RUP, PPF, PAT/FFP, EBP, BDF/BSDIFF40, BSP, MOD/PMSR, DLDI, DPS, DCP (Dreamcast).
.PP
ROM copier headers:
\- \-\-patch\-header (auto|keep|strip, default auto) controls which bytes each patch applies against. Auto decides PER PATCH: a patch\*(Aqs required input checksum (embedded UPS/BPS source CRC32, or a [crc32:..] filename token for the first patch) is compared against the current bytes and their headerless/re\-headered counterpart; the header is stripped or restored between chain steps only on checksum proof. No evidence keeps the current bytes untouched.
\- \-\-patch\-header is positional and repeatable: each occurrence applies to the most recent preceding \-\-patch and carries forward (`\-\-patch a.bps \-\-patch\-header strip \-\-patch b.ups` strips for both; `\-\-patch a.bps \-\-patch b.ups \-\-patch\-header strip` strips only for b.ups). An occurrence before any \-\-patch applies to every patch.
\- \-\-output\-header (keep|strip|auto, default auto) controls whether the final output carries the header. Auto keeps headers emulators require (iNES/FDS/LNX/A78) and drops junk copier headers (SNES/PCE/Game Doctor). The chain has one output, so the flag is a single setting (last value wins).
\- When the final header state changes the ROM\*(Aqs conventional extension, the output extension is adjusted to match (for example SNES .smc \-> headerless .sfc) and the report notes the adjustment. Unrelated extensions are never touched.
.PP
Caveats:
\- NINJA1 headers are recognized but apply is unsupported.
\- PDS is explicitly unsupported.
\- HDiffPatch directory patches (HDIFF19) are unsupported; only single\-file .hdiff/.hpatchz is supported.
\- DCP (Universal Dreamcast Patcher) requires a disc\-sheet input (.cue/.gdi); it rebuilds the GD\-ROM data track\*(Aqs filesystem and reassembles the full disc (compressed to CHD by default). It cannot be chained with other patches or combined with header/checksum transforms.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-input\fR \fI<PATH>\fR
ROM, disc sheet, bundle, or container to patch
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Emit progress and terminal status as JSON lines
.TP
\fB\-\-progress\fR
Force running progress events on
.TP
\fB\-\-select\fR \fI<SELECT>\fR
Container payload selection pattern(s) used while auto\-extracting patch apply input and patch files
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-progress\fR
Disable running progress events
.TP
\fB\-\-target\fR \fI<TARGET>\fR
For a disc\-sheet (.cue/.gdi) input, glob selecting which referenced track (.bin) receives the patch; must match exactly one track. Uses the same matching as \-\-select.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-level\fR \fI<LOG_LEVEL>\fR
Set application log level (off, error, warn, info, debug, trace)
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
off
.IP \(bu 2
error
.IP \(bu 2
warn
.IP \(bu 2
info
.IP \(bu 2
debug
.IP \(bu 2
trace
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-rom\-filter\fR
Keep ROM\-like payload candidates while resolving the patch input archive
.TP
\fB\-\-patch\-filter\fR
Keep patch\-like payload candidates while resolving patch archives
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase application log verbosity; repeat for debug and trace
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-extract\fR
Disable container auto\-extract and patch the raw input and patch bytes directly
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Show only application errors
.TP
\fB\-\-dep\-trace\fR
Enable trace logs from dependencies (for example nod)
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-ignore\fR
Disable default ignore filtering during patch apply container payload resolution
.TP
\fB\-\-patch\fR \fI<PATCHES>\fR
Patch file(s) to apply in order; repeat \-\-patch for each step. If omitted, patch apply discovers RetroArch\-style sidecar patches inside the input archive.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fI<OUTPUT>\fR
Output path for the patched result. Optional when a rom\-weaver\-bundle.json bundle supplies output.name
.TP
\fB\-\-bundle\fR \fI<BUNDLE>\fR
Apply using a rom\-weaver\-bundle.json bundle (a path, or an http(s) URL on native builds). Also auto\-detected when the input is rom\-weaver\-bundle.json[.gz|.bz2|.xz|.zst], or an archive carrying a root rom\-weaver\-bundle.json without explicit \-\-patch flags
.TP
\fB\-\-with\fR \fI<GLOB>\fR
Include bundle patches matching GLOB (by name or file name) even when default is false; repeatable
.TP
\fB\-\-without\fR \fI<GLOB>\fR
Exclude bundle patches matching GLOB (by name or file name), overriding their default; repeatable
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-compress\fR
Write raw patched bytes without the default patch\-output compression step
.TP
\fB\-\-compress\-format\fR \fI<COMPRESS_FORMAT>\fR
Patch\-output compression container format (derived from the output extension when omitted; required when the output has no recognizable extension; overrides the extension with a warning when they disagree). Use \-\-no\-compress to write raw patched bytes.
.TP
\fB\-\-compress\-codec\fR \fI<COMPRESS_CODEC>\fR
Patch\-output compression codec override; supports codec[:level]. Repeat \-\-compress\-codec for multiple codecs (for example CHD: \-\-compress\-codec cdzs[:19] \-\-compress\-codec cdzl \-\-compress\-codec cdfl). If :level is omitted, falls back to \-\-compress\-level profile.
.TP
\fB\-\-compress\-level\fR \fI<COMPRESS_LEVEL>\fR
Global patch\-output compression level profile (min|very\-low|low|medium|high|very\-high|max). Defaults to max
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
min
.IP \(bu 2
very\-low
.IP \(bu 2
low
.IP \(bu 2
medium
.IP \(bu 2
high
.IP \(bu 2
very\-high
.IP \(bu 2
max
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-checksum\-cache\fR \fI<ALGO=HEX>\fR
Provide trusted effective patch input checksum values for validation without recomputing; repeat for multiple algorithms (for example: \-\-checksum\-cache crc32=1234abcd)
.TP
\fB\-\-validate\-with\-checksum\fR \fI<ALGO=HEX>\fR
Validate effective patch input checksum before apply; repeat for multiple algorithms (for example: \-\-validate\-with\-checksum crc32=1234abcd)
.TP
\fB\-\-patch\-header\fR \fI<PATCH_HEADER>\fR
Which bytes patches apply against: auto (default; strip the detected ROM copier header only when that patch\*(Aqs required input checksum matches the headerless bytes \- decided per patch in a chain), keep (patch the current bytes as\-is), or strip (strip the detected header). Repeatable: each occurrence applies to the most recent preceding \-\-patch and carries forward until the next occurrence; an occurrence before any \-\-patch applies to every patch. Detected headers: A78/LNX/NES/FDS/SMC signatures plus SNES/PCE copier\-size rules.
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
keep
.IP \(bu 2
strip
.IP \(bu 2
auto
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-patch\-basis\fR \fI<PATCH_BASIS>\fR
What the preceding \-\-patch\*(Aqs input checks were authored against: auto (default; infer from checksums), base (the original ROM \- verified up front, embedded checks skipped mid\-chain), or previous (the prior patch\*(Aqs output). Binds to the most recent \-\-patch; index\-aligned on the wasm path.
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
auto
.IP \(bu 2
base
.IP \(bu 2
previous
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-header\fR \fI<OUTPUT_HEADER>\fR
Whether the final patched output carries the ROM header: keep (re\-add a header stripped for apply), strip (headerless output, removing a still\-present header if needed), or auto (default; keep emulator\-required headers like iNES/FDS/LNX/A78, drop junk copier headers like SNES/PCE/Game Doctor). The chain produces one output, so this is a single setting; if repeated, the last value wins. When the final header state changes the ROM\*(Aqs conventional extension (for example SNES .smc vs headerless .sfc), the output extension is adjusted to match.
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
keep
.IP \(bu 2
strip
.IP \(bu 2
auto
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-repair\-checksum\fR
Repair supported ROM headers/checksums after patch apply (SNES/NES/GB/GBA/MD/SMS/N64/NDS and related profiles; auto\-detect)
.TP
\fB\-\-n64\-byte\-order\fR \fI<N64_BYTE_ORDER>\fR
N64 byte order for each patch: auto (default; match the patch source CRC32), keep, big\-endian, little\-endian, or byte\-swapped. Repeatable per patch; a shorter list carries the last mode forward. The original input order is restored on output.
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
auto
.IP \(bu 2
keep
.IP \(bu 2
big\-endian
.IP \(bu 2
little\-endian
.IP \(bu 2
byte\-swapped
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-checksum\-validation\fR
Skip patch\-provided checksum validation during patch apply and permit recoverable patch\-format validation issues
.TP
\fB\-\-validate\-output\-checksum\fR \fI<ALGO=HEX>\fR
Validate the patched output checksum after apply; repeat for multiple algorithms (for example: \-\-validate\-output\-checksum sha1=...)
.TP
\fB\-\-code\fR \fI<CODES>\fR
Cheat code (Game Genie or Pro Action Replay/GameShark) to bake into the input ROM; repeat \-\-code for each. Codes are decoded against the input ROM and applied as a synthetic patch.
.TP
\fB\-\-code\-system\fR \fI<CODE_SYSTEM>\fR
Override the cheat\-code system (nes, snes, genesis, gameboy) when it cannot be auto\-detected from the ROM header
.TP
\fB\-\-code\-kind\fR \fI<CODE_KIND>\fR [default: auto]
Cheat code scheme: auto (infer), game\-genie, or gameshark/par
.TP
\fB\-\-threads\fR \fI<auto|N>\fR [default: auto]
Thread budget: auto or a positive integer
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
